---  
layout: post
title: Designing Data-Intensive Applications 01
categories: book,DDIA
description: Preface，数据密集型应用的设计
keywords: 读书笔记,DDIA,Designing Data-Intensive Applications
---  

# Preface  

Note: “in server-side and backend systems”   

“NoSQL! Big Data! Web-scale! Sharding! Eventual consistency! ACID! CAP theorem! Cloud services! MapReduce! Real-time!”
    
>  NoSQL is a term that was coined in 1998 by Carlo Strozzi to describe his lightweight, open-source relational database that did not expose the standard SQL interface. 

>  Big Data is a term that refers to the large and complex data sets that are generated by modern applications and systems. 

>  Web-scale is a term that refers to the ability of a system to handle large volumes of traffic and data, typically on the order of millions or billions of users and requests. 

>  Sharding is a technique for partitioning a database into smaller, more manageable pieces called shards.   

>  Eventual consistency is a consistency model that allows for temporary inconsistencies in a distributed system. This is often used in distributed databases and systems that prioritize availability and partition tolerance over consistency, as described by the CAP theorem.    

>  ACID is an acronym that stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability.   

>  The CAP theorem, also known as Brewer's theorem, is a principle that states that in a distributed system, it is impossible to simultaneously achieve consistency, availability, and partition tolerance.   

>  Cloud services refer to the delivery of computing resources, such as servers, storage, databases, networking, software, and analytics, over the internet.    

>  MapReduce is a programming model and processing technique that is used to process and generate large data sets in a distributed computing environment.    

>  Real-time refers to the ability of a system to process and respond to data or events as they occur, with minimal latency.   


“Data-intensive applications are pushing the boundaries of what is possible by making use of these technological developments.”

We call an application data-intensive if data is its primary challenge—the quantity of data, the complexity of data, or the speed at which it is changing—as opposed to compute-intensive, where CPU cycles are the bottleneck.

数据密集性应用，绝大部分的互联网应用都是的，很少出现计算密集型的应用，除非是一些科学计算或者图像处理等领域的应用。

However, as software engineers and architects, we also need to have a technically accurate and precise understanding of the various technologies and their trade-offs if we want to build good applications. 

behind the rapid changes in technology, there are enduring principles that remain true, no matter which version of a particular tool you are using. 

理解背后的原理，才能更好地使用工具，设计出好的应用。
we will try to find useful ways of thinking about data systems—not just how they work, but also why they work that way, and what questions we need to ask.

After reading this book, you will be in a great position to decide which kind of technology is appropriate for which purpose, and understand how tools can be combined to form the foundation of a good application architecture.  You will, however, develop a good intuition 直觉 for what your systems are doing **under the hood（在表面之下：指在某物的内部工作过程中）** so that you can reason about their behavior, make good design decisions, and track down any problems that may arise.

能够理解系统的内部工作原理，才能更好地设计系统，做出好的设计决策，并且能够追踪系统出现的问题。


Outline of This Book
This book is arranged into three parts:
1. In Part I, we discuss the fundamental ideas that underpin the design of data- intensive applications. We start in Chapter 1 by discussing what we’re actually trying to achieve: reliability, scalability, and maintainability; how we need to think about them; and how we can achieve them. In Chapter 2 we compare sev‐ eral different data models and query languages, and see how they are appropriate to different situations. In Chapter 3 we talk about storage engines: how databases arrange data on disk so that we can find it again efficiently. Chapter 4 turns to formats for data encoding (serialization) and evolution of schemas over time.  

2. In Part II, we move from data stored on one machine to data that is distributed across multiple machines. This is often necessary for scalability, but brings with it a variety of unique challenges. We first discuss replication (Chapter 5), parti‐ tioning/sharding (Chapter 6), and transactions (Chapter 7). We then go into more detail on the problems with distributed systems (Chapter 8) and what it means to achieve consistency and consensus in a distributed system (Chapter 9).  

3. In Part III, we discuss systems that derive some datasets from other datasets. Derived data often occurs in heterogeneous systems: when there is no one data‐ base that can do everything well, applications need to integrate several different databases, caches, indexes, and so on. In Chapter 10 we start with a batch pro‐ cessing approach to derived data, and we build upon it with stream processing in Chapter 11. Finally, in Chapter 12 we put everything together and discuss approaches for building reliable, scalable, and maintainable applications in the future.

这本书包含了三部分，第一部分是数据密集型应用设计的基本原理，第二部分是分布式系统的设计，第三部分是衍生数据系统的设计。也就是说分别针对单机，多机，衍生进行讨论。   

从单机开始聊数据系统，可以摒除分布式庞杂理论的影响，专注在数据系统本身相关理论；到第二个部分放开单机限制，着重讲将数据系统扩展到多机所面临的问题和一般解决方案；最后一部分笔锋一转，着眼数据处理，以数据系统视角看，无非是一个数据集的变换，也即数据的派生。    

三个部分，层层递进，相互正交。这种行文思路，正是大型工业代码组织思路：将复杂度拆解到几个正交、但又相互连结的模块，从而使每个部分都相对内聚而简洁。

